Brandon Lewis Research Notes
Section 1.3 The World Wide Web

1979 - Usenet newsgroup began, users posted information to share with others
using proper software (What software did they use?/How did they use it?)

1990 - World Wide Web was officially developed. Two types of software:
server and client software. Servers are internet computers that provide 
information, clients receive information put out by servers. Both 
communicate using HTTP, based off TCP/IP.

HTTP - Hypertext Transport Protocol
Communication protocol where client requests document from server, 
server returns the document. 
(Why is it considered generic? Generic = flexible?)

Request-Response Model - basic structure of HTTP
	Client sends request message to server, server sends response
	(What happens if there is no response? What does it mean about the 
	server? Is it down?), messages are sent through TCP (Note - HTTP is         based off TCP/IP)
	HTTP response message is readable and printable (an advantage over
	other protocols)

Structure of HTTP Request Message
Overall Structure:
Start line - consists of request method, request-URI, and HTTP version
Request Methods
	GET - primary method of HTTP (used when typing in URL bar)
	FTP - accessing files on FTP server
	MAILTO - accessng mail
	HTTPS - accessing documents over secure connection (how does it 
	differ from HTTP?)
	FILE - accessing file on machine
Header field - used to form URI in HTTP request, required in ecery HTTP/1.1 
message; header fields have to have: field name, field value
	 MIME type - field values that passes different information through
	 email (Ex. text/hmtl and image/jpeg)
	 Quality values - indicate preferences, specified by q=num (num is
	 a decimal between 0 and 1, higher number indicates higher 
	 preference)

Structure of HTTP Response
Status line: HTTP version, status code, text string
       Status code - indicates type of response (200 is OK, 403 is Forbidden	   404 is Not Found, 500 is Internal Server Error)
Header fields
       Cache control - web browsers cache resources requested from servers,
       allows for easier access to resources instead of requesting again, 
       cache information can be invalidated (use HEAD method to guarantee
       validity of resource copy)
Blank line

Character Sets - characters represented by integer values, US-ASCII is 
character set that represent US characters in HTTP header field names, each
character represented by 7-bit integer

How to access website from Address Bar:
Browser sends HTTP message, uses DNS to obtain IP address for website, TCP 
connection made at IP address, sent HTTP message over TCP, information 
received in browser client area)

HTML - Hypertext Markup Language
How most webpages are written. Both HTTP and HTML are Hypertext, does this 
mean they were created concurrently? Do they work exclusively together? 
Considered a fundamental technology, along with HTTP. HTML allows for 
greater variety in content that Gopher, WAIS, and ARCHIE (Ex. hyperlinks, 
page layouts, inline graphics)

Definition of WWW - Servers that provide information through HTTP, providing
HTML documents.

9/15/10
1.6 Web Clients

Web client - software that accesses a web server by sending HTTP request
message

Mosiac browser - first browser for general public by National Center for Supercomputer Applications
       Netscape and Internet Explorer both based off Mosiac

Browser war between Netscape and Microsoft; MS won by bundling IE with Windows Operating System, Netscape acquired by AOL, source code opened and launched
Mozilla project, became Firefox browser
	Other browsers: Safari, Opera, and Google Chrome

Status messages:
Resolving: requesting IP address from DNS
Connecting: creating TCP connection
Waiting: HTTP request sent
Transferring data: HTTP response begun
Done: Response has been received

